Welcome back guys in this video I take a look at HP arrays.
So in previous videos we looked at variables which great the saw in data which can be changed.
However they can only hold one value.
But if wanted to store more than one value we need to use an array which can store as many values inside
of that array as we like.
So this is how we create an array use and plan B.
So there's two different methods and one to show you the first one we can set the arrays name just like
a variable name so and create an array of shapes.
And then set this to be an array.
I know need to follow the Reiki word with the code of buckets and then a semicolon.
So all we've done is create a array an empty array with the name of shapes.
Okay so to add some values inside of this empty array.
Let's use the arrays name and then followed by a set of square brackets.
And then when it's put in the index number.
So start with zero which is the first position of an array.
So I want to set this to be the first shape so a square.
So adds the value of square inside the array.
And let's add one or two more.
So shapes an end position 1.
This can be a circle.
And in shapes that is shown to.
So a triangle.
OK so we've set a empty array to either name or shapes and we've added free values to the array of square
circle and triangle.
So to check this is work and we can do a echo so to echo the arrays name of shapes and then the elements
of the array that want to print.
So let's start with it number two.
So you should print out the browser the value or triangle.
So save that and then refresh and never goes.
That's the position number two of the array which has the value of triangle as changes to number one
so should get the circle.
So this is quite a long way of right in an array.
That is a simple way to write an array.
And this is by using the literal method.
So instead of what were done above.
Can set the arrays name of shapes.
I never said that to an array and then put the values straight inside the array.
So first of all put in the square and end separate by commas the circle.
And then the triangle.
And let's just delete this one for now.
I ember can do the echo just as were done before.
Let's echo the name which is shapes.
And in the square rockets again we need to put in the index number.
So let's start with zero which is the square.
So say that and then refreshen will get the value of square.
So even these two methods works perfectly fine.
So a few videos ago we took a look at string functions where we reverse the order of the string and
then we changed the text to be uppercase arrays also have similar functions.
And there's a list of available functions are p p donnette but I'm going to go through one or two examples
just to show you what we can do with array functions.
So the first one is the count function which counts the number of items inside the array.
So we use the CAN'T function and there will put the arrays name inside of brackets.
So when to lead the zero.
So should echo to the browser the number of items inside the shape's array.
Cell refresh.
So the free items inside the array.
There's also various functions such as the array pop which removes returns the very last item from the
end of an array.
So to do this one create one more variable.
And I'm going to call it the last shape so the mushaima Want to grab is a triangle.
So to grab the value of this when it's set is value to be equal to array underscore pop.
And then to grab the value of triangle or the last item which needs put in the name of the array which
is shapes.
So what we've done is we've said the last item on the array inside this variable name.
So now we can just echo these variable names.
The browser and we should get the value of triangle.
So I echo the variable name of lush shape.
And then refresh and then go as such.
The value or triangle.
We can also find the minimum and the maximum value of an array says Create a array with numbers this
time.
So numbers is equal to an array.
I would only put any numbers inside these quotations.
Let's just put some numbers inside there.
An M. can echo.
And if we wanted to find out the largest number we could use the max function and then inside the buckets.
The name of the array which is numbers.
So now we should get printed to the screen the maximum number which is 67.
Which we do.
We can also replace marks.
Women and we should add the value of one.
Okay great.
So that's how you can create an array.
Use and P HP and also some basic P HP array functions.
So thank you and see in the next video.
Well take a look up HP functions.